a downtrend refers to the price action of a security that moves lower in price as it fluctuates over time. while the price may move intermittently higher or lower, downtrends are characterized by lower peaks and lower troughs over time. technical analysts pay attention to downtrends because they represent something more than a random losing streak. securities in a downtrend seem to be more likely to continue trending lower until some market condition changes, implying that a downtrend marks a fundamentally deteriorating condition. a downtrend can be contrasted with an uptrend. downtrends are characterized by lower peaks and troughs and imply fundamental changes in the beliefs of investors. a change in trend is fueled by a change in the supply of stocks investors want to sell compared with the demand for the stock by investors who want to buy. downtrends are coincidental with changes in the factors that surround the security, whether macroeconomic or specifically associated with a company's business model. a security that changes from an uptrend to a downtrend very rarely makes a single instantaneous changes from one to the other. instead the price action in an uptrend shows signs of strain and then the downtrend incrementally begins. both upward and downward trends are marked by their peaks and troughs (also referred to as swing highs and swing lows), and the general direction they appear to be proceeding. the following illustration shows a series of peaks and troughs (peaks are even numbered, troughs are odd). the dynamic shown in this illustration is similar in nature to almost all trend changes from upward to downward. though specifics vary in each instance, three characteristics of this change are common: the price action falls below the most recent trough (shown in points 1-3) the next peak fails to rise higher than its predecessor (points 3-5) the downward trend increases its likelihood of continuing (points 5-7) the first characteristic of a downtrend marks a point in the price action where supply exceeds demand. the number of available sellers and the quantity of the security they want to sell is more than the number of ready buyers and the quantity they want to buy. somehow market participants have, as a majority, no longer accepted the idea that this security should be priced as high as it is. the second characteristic indicates the increasing number of market participants that, though previously undecided, have become convinced during the recent peak of price that they must no longer own (or own as much of) the security. the number of sellers increases simultaneously with the number of buyers decreasing. the third characteristic is usually accompanied by news or new information that confirms the suspicions of those who determined to exit, or no longer consider buying, the security. even more buyers back away and even more sellers become eager to take profits or limit losses. the majority of traders seek to avoid downtrends because they are inherently focused on upward trends and trade long only. downtrends can be found in every trading time frame: minutes, days, weeks, months, or even years. traders therefore look for ways to identify a downtrend as early as possible. some traders prefer to trade both long and short, so they identify downtrends for new trading opportunities. traders recognize that once a downtrend has been established within their preferred time frame, they should be very cautious about entering into any new long positions. this exacerbates the downtrend by contributing to a reduced demand. long/short traders recognize the opposite, that this is now their opportunity to profit on the downtrend. since short sellers seek to profit from downtrends by borrowing and then immediately selling shares with the agreement to repurchase them in the future. these are known as short positions or short selling. if the asset's price continues to decline, the trader profits from the difference between the immediate sale price and the lower future repurchase price. since they add to the price action by entering with sell orders, this too exacerbates the downward trend. such traders look to profit from at least the next swing lower, maybe more if they can be patient and the trend actually does continue lower. often times, traders use technical indicators and chart patterns to identify and confirm downtrends. moving averages, for example, can be used to identify the overall trend. if the price is lower than a moving average, the stock is likely to be in a downtrend, and vice versa for an uptrend. technical indicators such as the relative strength index (rsi) or the average directional index (adx), can also show the magnitude or strength of the downtrend at a given point in time, which can help when deciding whether or not to enter a short position. the example of the lengthy downtrend in general electric co. (ge) stock prices is instructive to review. this price action accompanied a growing awareness that the company's troubles were deeper than originally anticipated, and that layoffs, spinoffs, plant closings and product cancellations were signaling a sea change in the economic environment—one that ge was not prepared for. in this chart, the stock makes its final peak followed by the next trough moving lower than the previous trough (as shown in the inset). this lower trough coincides with the moment that supply of stock that investors want to sell has outnumbered the demand that investors have to buy the stock at these prices. this initial sign of weakness (an example of the first characteristic mentioned previously) was not accompanied by widely spread news of the company's troubles, though investors determined for themselves that the company's prospects were not as optimal as previously thought. the lower peaks and troughs that follow mark an extended downtrend lasting more than two years—and during a time when the rest of the market was generally moving higher. traders that had taken a bearish stance on the stock following the breakdown from the first trough would have found many opportunities for profitable trades. alternatively, long traders may have locked in their profits at the beginning of the downtrend and re-entered their long position after the stock showed signs of a rebound. 
now consider a situation where another investor loses the opportunity to sell stock b at rs 200 and it falls to rs 160. in a bear market scenario, there will be bad news about the stock and, therefore, he would not want to hold on to it. this means he would be ready to sell the stock at the next available opportunity (i.e. the next rally in the stock), even if the realized price is lower than rs 200. so the increased selling pressure at a price below rs 200 will make sure that the rally in stock b will turn around before touching the previous top of rs 200 (i.e. it will form a lower top). if the bear grip continues to affect the counter, these lower tops can continue for some time. and just like higher tops and higher bottoms making an uptrend, ‘lower tops and lower bottoms’ create a downtrend. 
any market in which prices exhibit a declining trend. for a prolonged period, usually falling by 20% or more. a situation in which a large number of indices lose a significant percentage of their value over the medium or long term. while there is no hard-and-fast definition of a bear market, many analysts consider a 20% loss in the dow jones industrial average or the s&p 500 to be a good rule of thumb. it is difficult to make a positive return on stocks during a bear market, and some investors move into bonds. this leads to the sale of more stocks, and the bear market can become self-sustaining. technical analysts attempt to find the bottom of bear markets and identify buy signals, but this is risky. a bear market is different from a recession, but one can lead to the other. an extended period of general price declines in an individual security or other asset, such as silver or real estate; a group of securities; or the securities market as a whole. nevertheless, even during widespread bear markets, it is possible to have bull markets in particular stocks or groups of stocks. for example, stocks of gold-related companies often move against major trends in the security markets. a bear market is sometimes described as a period of falling securities prices and sometimes, more specifically, as a market where prices have fallen 20% or more from the most recent high. a bear market in stocks is triggered when investors sell off shares, generally because they anticipate worsening economic conditions and falling corporate profits. a bear market in bonds is usually the result of rising interest rates, which prompts investors to sell off older bonds paying lower rates. a situation in which the prices of financial securities (stocks, shares, etc.) or commodities (tin, wheat, etc.) tend to fall as a result of persistent selling and only limited buying. a situation where the prices of financial securities (stocks, shares, etc.) or commodities (tin, wheat, etc.) are tending to fall as a result of persistent selling and only limited buying. an investor who believes a stock or the overall market will decline. a bear market is a prolonged period of falling stock prices, usually by 20% or more. an investor who believes, for any technical or fundamental reason, that a security or the broader market will decline significantly. a bear takes the appropriate steps to limit losses during the period that they believe that the security will decline. they may sell their long positions or short sell the security to profit from the decline in price. an investor who believes a security or some other asset or the security markets in general will follow a broad downward path. an investor can often be a bear on a particular security but not on the general market and vice versa. a person who sells a financial security (stock, share, foreign currency, etc.) in expectation that its market price is likely to fall. a person who expects future prices in a stock exchange or commodity market to fall and who seeks to make money by selling shares or commodities. a situation in which a security price is moving mostly downward. though there may or may not be a few upticks in between, this does not stop the overall bearish trend. for example, a security may be priced at $100 per share on january 1, $90 on january 10, and $85 on january 31. this indicates a downtrend, even if the security closed higher on certain days in january. a series of price declines in a security or the general market. many analysts feel that investors should avoid securities in a downtrend until the pattern is broken.
Shares of electric-truck start-up Nikola were down again on Monday, on continued selling pressure in the wake of a hard-hitting report from a short-seller last week. But a statement from Nikola challenging the report -- and a new note from a Wall Street analyst defending the company -- may have been mitigating that selling pressure early on Monday. As of 10 a.m. EDT, Nikola's shares were down about 4.4% from Friday's closing price. Nikola's stock has been under pressure since last Thursday, when short-seller Hindenburg Research released a scathing report that accused Nikola of being "an intricate fraud built on dozens of lies." From Wednesday's close through Friday's, the stock lost about 24% of its value. Auto investors expected the selling pressure to continue on Monday -- and in fact, the stock was down more than 10% in premarket trading early on. But the selling pressure eased after Nikola released a rebuttal of Hindenburg's allegations, and after JPMorgan analyst Paul Coster said Hindenburg's core criticism of Nikola was "misconceived." 
The global oil and gas industry has witnessed a continual slowdown in the number of oil and gas contracts, as companies are finding it difficult to proceed further due to stressed capital, crude oil prices decline and operational challenges due to the COVID-19 outbreak, says GlobalData, a leading data and analytics company. The oil and gas industry recorded contract value of $31.96bn in Q2 2020, as compared $18.01bn reported in the previous quarter. GlobalData highlights that the number of contracts witnessed a decline from 1,267 in Q1 2020 to 907 in Q2 2020. GlobalData’s latest report, ‘Q2 2020 Global Oil & Gas Industry Contracts Review’, states that the upstream sector reported 658 contracts in Q2 2020, followed by midstream and downstream/petrochemical sector with 171 and 114 contracts, respectively, during the quarter. During this time, some of the key contracts signed were Qatar Petroleum’s US$19.21bn agreement with DSME, Hyundai and Daewoo for the construction of more than 100 LNG carriers, as well as the US$2.85bn contract with Hudong-Zhonghua Shipbuilding for the construction of 16 LNG carriers and Maire Tecnimont led consortium with Sinopec Engineering’s US$1.31bn contract from Amur GCC for the Engineering, Procurement and Site Services (EPSS) including the implementation of several large-scale polyolefin units in Russia. 
An early rally gave way to a decline on Thursday for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The Dow was down 0.5% at 1 p.m. EDT today after initial jobless claims for last week came in higher than expected. The Labor Department reported 884,000 initial claims for the week, flat from the previous week but above the median estimate of 850,000 from economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Shares of Boeing lost ground on Thursday following a report that the company had agreed to an independent review related to bidding practices for its lunar landing vehicle. Apple stock was also lower, giving back some of Wednesday's gains. The problems facing aircraft manufacturer and defense company Boeing go beyond the grounded 737 MAX, manufacturing issues with the 787 Dreamliner, and depressed demand for air travel due to the pandemic. Reuters reported late Wednesday that Boeing would submit to an independent review of its practices related to its bidding for lunar landing vehicles. Boeing came to an agreement with NASA and the Air Force in August to undergo the review. The company will pay a third party to assess its ethics and compliance programs and to review training procedures for executives who deal with government officials. All of this stems from a criminal investigation into whether a former NASA official improperly interacted with a Boeing executive during a contract bidding process. Boeing may save itself from severe penalties by agreeing to the review. The company could have potentially been barred from bidding on future space contracts, which would be a big problem given that NASA and the Air Force are the biggest customers for company's space division. Shares of Boeing were down around 0.8% by early Thursday afternoon. The pandemic crushed the stock earlier this year, and it has only partly recovered. Boeing stock is now down about 51% since the beginning of 2020. After peaking at the start of September, Apple stock has tumbled hard along with other high-flying tech stocks. Shares of the tech giant are now about 16% below. By Thursday afternoon, the downtrend had reasserted itself, with the stock down around 1.2%.Add to that an elevated unemployment rate and the most-uncertain economic environment in recent memory. Given that an iPhone upgrade is something that can easily be delayed, the range of possible outcomes for this launch season is very wide. 
Avoid General Electric Amid the Current Stock Market Dip. The technicals and fundamentals of GE stock continue to look poor. The stock market is taking a much-needed break and selling off. However, General Electric hasn’t been performing well. If GE stock can’t do well when times are good, why on earth should investors buy it when times are bad? Here is the problem in a nutshell: General Electric doesn’t have the fundamentals that make it a buy when times are tough, and volatility is picking up. There are many stocks where this isn’t the case, such as Apple, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Honeywell or any number of companies out there. However, GE also lacks the technicals to justify a long position, too. GE’s bright spot used to be aerospace. That was the company’s saving grace when it came to its various operations and ill-time deals. Aerospace was a consistent winner for almost all parties involved. Look at Boeing. It used to be a cash flow machine with a hearty dividend. Now the company continues to limp through various quality issues with its bloated balance sheet. Granted, the novel coronavirus has severely derailed the company’s standing, but it has a fair share of company-specific problems to take the blame for. Its 737 MAX issues have been well documented. That’s partly because two plane crashes involving the 737 MAX killed so many people and partly because it was Boeing’s best-selling jet. It doesn’t help that there’s been so much controversy on company’s part, too. With regulators and customers slamming the brakes on the 737 MAX, it’s had a trickle-down effect on GE, which made the plane’s engines. The continued delay of the jet has had a negative effect on GE stock, as one can imagine. On Sept. 8 though, reports surfaced that Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner has had slowing deliveries thanks to a manufacturing flaw. What company makes the engine for this model? GE, of course. Admittedly, it would be speculation to say that GE will see slower order flow from Boeing as a result of this latest development. But it’s another stain on the company’s aerospace business, which continues to get less attractive by the day. The company is forecast to lose 4 cents per share this year after earning 65 cents per share in 2019. In 2021, estimates call for earnings of just 35 cents per share, about half of 2019’s total. That comes on a forecast calling for 17% drop in revenue this year and a rebound of just 4% growth in 2021. These are not the numbers we like to see and it helps explain why the stock has basically flattened since the coronavirus sell-off. Admittedly, its new management team led by CEO Larry Culp is making GE a better company. But it’s a lot of work and not completely in its control (with the current environment). The balance sheet and income statement have taken some heavy hits over the past few years and its business units are struggling. Free cash flow has been negative and is expected to stay negative this year, too. A majority of GE’s business units are generating a loss as well, there’s just no momentum here. Of all the stocks out in the market, I see little reason to go after this one right now.  Bulls’ saving grace is $6 right now. That level ultimately acted as support amid the March breakdown. GE stock found its footing near this level around the same time the overall market did. In its post-earnings action in July, GE also hit a low of $6, then $6.02 in the following session before rebounding higher. Only once did this level really give way, which came in May. Near $6 now and with the markets reversing hard off its all-time highs, does GE stock have what it takes to again find support near this mark? Hopefully so, but as you know, “hope” isn’t a strategy. Should $6 fail, look for a test down to $5.47. General Electric hammered out a low at this level over the course of three consecutive days where this was the exact low. Below it puts $5 or lower on the table. On the upside, bulls need to see GE stock reclaim its 20- and 50-day moving averages. Above that and reclaiming downtrend resistance (blue line) could create some acceleration to the upside, potentially to the 23.6% retracement near $7.30. Above that could put the 38.2% retracement and 200-day moving average on the table.  
U.S. equity markets reversed course, giving up earlier gains, to end the session lower as investors reviewed disappointing jobless claims data and continued to hedge mega-cap technology names. The Nasdaq Composite led the selling, closing down about 2%, with Netflix among the weaker performers. They fell 21% on Tuesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 400 points, or 1.4%, with Apple and Microsoft among the biggest weights. Financials joined tech as the biggest laggards in the S&P, which ended down 1.76%. Looking at the economy, initial jobless claims for the week ended Sept. 5 totaled 884,000, unchanged from the prior week. Continuing claims, a broader category that measures unemployed workers receiving benefits for longer than a week, climbed to 13.385 million, up from a revised 13.292 million. Both numbers were worse than the Refinitiv consensus. Looking at stocks, tech giants Alphabet Inc. and Amazon Inc., gave up earlier gains to end lower. Looking at earnings, video game retailer GameStop reported a wider-than-expected quarterly loss as comparable-store sales fell 12.7% from a year ago. The company said store closings due to COVID-19 and being in the final months of a generation console cycle contributed to the weakness. Peloton Interactive Inc. shares fell ahead of the release of its quarterly results. Looking at commodities, West Texas Intermediate crude oil slid 75 cents to $37.30 per barrelIn Europe, France’s CAC slid 0.38% and Germany’s DAX lost 0.21% after the European Central Bank kept rates and its stimulus program unchanged despite the euro over the last four months having strengthened 9% versus the U.S. dollar. Elsewhere in the region, Britain’s FTSE slipped 0.16%. China’s Shanghai Composite and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng fell 0.61% and 0.64%, respectively. 
Recently, the stock market had a correction, as investors cashed in on profits from their investments. Stocks that surged the most, saw the biggest dip. The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 10% in three trading sessions, after reaching its all-time high of 12,056. The question is, was that a one-time occurrence, or is the beginning of a new bear market? The market bounced back yesterday, but is down again today. It’s too early to tell how long this will last, but we need to be prepared for another crash. The stock market’s returns are not in line with what is happening in the economy. People are still losing jobs and that leads to less consumer spending. So which stocks would hold up in a market crash? The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the way people live and work. The stay-at-home trend got a significant boost during the pandemic-driven lockdown as people started working remotely, and shopping and paying online. Many stocks benefited from this trend, but not all will be able to withstand a market crash.  
How to Play the Downtrend in PFE Stock. I'd rather sell the next rally than buy this ugly dip  Pfizer (NYSE:PFE) finds itself stuck in a downtrend and full of distribution. It’s the type of price action that tells bulls to head for the hills and bears to press their bets. If you’re not sure how to play it, then read on. Today’s article is all about how to capitalize on PFE stock in July. The rollover in Pfizer has been unfortunate. It wasn’t all that long ago that the drug giant was keeping pace with its leading sector. Now, it’s a laggard in an otherwise middle-of-the-pack industry. For context, let’s take an updated look at how the Health Sector SPDR (NYSERCA:XLV) has been faring. Remember, stocks tend to move sympathetically with their sector. Once you know the posture of XLV, you can spot which constituents are the leaders and which ones are falling behind. As ugly as the March nosedive was in XLV, the damage in the S&P 500 was worse. You can see the outperformance in the Relative Strength indicator shown in the lower panel. There was a sharp uptick in the reading at the beginning of March that continued until May. Then, as if to let the rest of the market play catch-up, XLV paused. Strength gave way to weakness, and the fund broke its 50-day moving average. Optimists will point out that we’re still above the horizontal support zone that has defined its three-month trading range. So there’s hope yet that the relative weakness won’t morph into a larger trend reversal. To signal healthcare is back to bullish, I’m watching for a push above the $101.50 resistance area. Until then, I’m cautious on the sector. Even before March, the weekly trend for Pfizer was bearish. But there’s no doubt the global pandemic accelerated its demise. The V-shaped rebound off the lows was impressive, but it stopped short of turning the long-term trend higher. And now, with the past month of weakness, PFE stock is back to trending below all major moving averages. With it only halfway back down to March’s low, there’s more room to plumb the depths if sellers press their advantage. The daily time frame has been ugly. June first’s down gap sparked the turnaround and it’s been nasty ever since. Bears have rejected every rally while chasing every support break. You can see their paw prints in the volume patterns. This month has been littered with distribution days. These high volume selloffs suggest big traders are net sellers right now. Until that changes, it’s hard to trust rallies. And PFE stock doesn’t just suck on an absolute basis. Its relative performance shows it falling well behind the healthcare sector. The following chart includes the Relative Strength indicator in the lower panel. Previously we looked at XLV versus the S&P 500. Here, we are specifically comparing PFE against its sector, not the broader market. The line has been trending sharply lower since May, confirming that Pfizer is under-performing its sector. When you add up the evidence, the takeaways are clear. First, don’t buy the stock. If you think this is ultimately a buying opportunity, then at least wait for the trend to turn higher after a resistance break. While you might have to purchase at higher prices, you’ll at least have the confirmation that bulls are taking control. Second, the trend favors bear trades. As bearish as its price action has been, we still want to look for an entry point that offers low risk versus high reward. Entering after a multi-day rally is far better than chasing shorts following a six-day drop. If we’re lucky, today’s 1.6% gain will follow through and carry PFE stock back toward $34. At that point, the falling 20-day moving average comes into play.I like using a trigger of a prior day’s low to signal the next downswing has begun. Buying August puts or put spreads is a simple way to play it. For the latter, I like the August $33/$30 bear put. It currently trades for $1.24 but will get cheaper if the rally continues. 
Cloudera Get Report was off about 10% on Thursday, dipping from its recent rally after reporting earnings. Does the stock deserve such a clocking? Perhaps not, but that’s the price action we’re getting on Thursday as the Nasdaq finally pays the price - at least for a day - for running so hot for so long. The index is off almost 5% on the day.  For Cloudera, the company reported second-quarter earnings of 10 cents per share, which came in 3 cents ahead of expectations. Revenue of $214.3 million topped analysts’ expectations by $6.25 million and grew 9% year-over-year.  Even better, margins beat expectations while management’s revenue and earnings outlook for the third quarter and full year all topped consensus expectations.  That’s got investors wondering if this selloff is indeed an overreaction. 
Taipei, Sept. 15 (CNA) The U.S. dollar came under heavy pressure in the wake of continued fund inflows, dropping to its lowest in almost two and a half years against the Taiwan dollar on Tuesday, dealers said. The greenback ended down NT$0.106, or 0.36 percent, to close at NT$29.380 against the Taiwan dollar after moving between NT$29.199 and NT$29.470. The latest closing level was the lowest since April 19, 2018, when the U.S. unit ended at NT$29.340 against its Taiwanese counterpart. Tuesday's downturn suffered by the U.S. dollar was the largest fall in four-and-a-half months. The U.S. dollar encountered selling soon after the local market opened, as foreign investors kept moving funds into the regional markets, and fell to the day's low in the early morning session, the dealers said. In addition to the large fund inflows, the dealers said the strength of the Chinese yuan also gave a strong incentive for traders to pocket more of other regional currencies, including the Taiwan dollar. In the wake of the plunge suffered by the U.S. dollar due to foreign fund inflows, Taiwanese exports rushed to dump their greenbacks in exchange for Taiwan dollars amid fears that they will record more foreign exchange losses caused by a weakening U.S. dollar, the dealers said. They said that unlike in recent sessions, the central bank seemed to make less of an effort to cap the fall of the U.S. dollar Tuesday, prompting more sell-offs in the greenback throughout the session. 