uptrend, also known as rising trend, is the trader's favorite trend type. in this trend, stock price trends in upward directions by making series of higher high and higher lows. though, it is safe to make a buy decision anywhere in uptrend, it gives best returns when bought near pullback or intermittent lows. as we have learnt in 'tool to identify trends' uptrend can be determined by joining any two low points of the chart and drawing a trend-line. this trend-line is extrapolated and it act as support. trend is considered as long as the trend-line is not breached. each subsequent lower point in trend line should be higher than previous one. the steeper the trend line the stronger the trend. other way to identify trend is by its moving average. a rising moving average indicates that stock is in trend. if the shorter moving average is on the rise, then short term trend is in place. if a longer moving average is rising then stock is in long term uptrend. as we have seen in complex trend example where there could be many counter trend in a long term trend, agile trader spot them and play in both direction to make profit. strategies with uptrend this is in addition to the strategies explained in previous section. each time the price comes toward trend line, smart traders accumulate some more and take partial profit when it goes toward upper end of the extrapolated previous highs. for every new position, corresponding stop loss need to be placed in. trading multiple times in uptrend, it is best to not consider average out. since, accumulation happens in chunks, they may consider separate trade for initial term and a strict stop loss should be placed. trailing stop loss would yield maximum result. while there is no fixed rule for putting trailing stop loss, depending on price movement of the stock and typical trade interval, previous, one or two days low could act as a good stop loss. exit as soon as trend line is breached particularly when with higher volume.
an uptrend describes the price movement of a financial asset when the overall direction is upward. in an uptrend, each successive peak and trough is higher than the ones found earlier in the trend. the uptrend is therefore composed of higher swing lows and higher swing highs. as long as the price is making these higher swing lows and higher swing highs, the uptrend is considered intact. once the price starts making lower swing highs or lower swing lows, the uptrend is in question or has reversed into a downtrend. roku commonly sees discussions about trends, for instance. an uptrend is an overall move higher in price, created by higher swing lows and higher swing highs. technical indicators and tools may aid in identifying and analyzing uptrends. trend traders utilize uptrends by buying during pullbacks or as the price rises again, attempting to capture profits based on the concept that uptrends make higher lows and higher highs. when the price is no longer making higher lows and higher highs, the uptrend is in question or may have reversed into a downtrend. some traders and investors only choose to trade during uptrends. these trend traders utilize various strategies to take advantage of the tendency for the price to make higher highs and higher lows. an uptrend provides investors with an opportunity to profit from rising asset prices. selling an asset once it has failed to create a higher peak and trough is one of the most effective ways to avoid large losses that can result from a change in trend. some technical traders utilize trendlines to identify an uptrend and spot possible trend reversals. the trendline is drawn along the rising swing lows, which helps show where future swing lows may form. moving averages are also utilized by some technical traders to analyze uptrends. when the price is above the moving average the trend is considered up, but when the price drops below moving average it means the price is now trading below the average price over a given period and may therefore no longer be in an uptrend. while these tools may be helpful in visually seeing the uptrend, ultimately the price should be making higher swing highs and higher swing lows to confirm that an uptrend is present. when an asset fails to produce higher swing highs and lows, it means that a downtrend could be underway, the asset is ranging, or the price action is choppy and the trend direction is hard to determine. in such cases, uptrend traders may opt to step aside until an uptrend is clearly visible. there are many techniques for analyzing and trading an uptrend. looking only at price action is one way, while using tools like trendlines and technical indicators are another. two common price action trading strategies—which can be confirmed or invalidated with additional input from technical tools and indicators—are to buy when the price pulls back during an uptrend, or to buy when the price is attempting to make a new swing high. even as the price rises, it will oscillate up and down. the moves lower are called pullbacks. if a trader or investor believes the price will continue higher after the pullback, they can buy during the pullback and profit from the ensuing price rise... if it comes. some trend traders view buying during a pullback as too risky or time-consuming, since there is uncertainty as to whether the price will rise again, and when. these traders may prefer to wait for the price to be definitively rising again. this means they may end buying near the prior swing high, or when the asset pushes into new high territory. both strategies require specific entry criteria to enter a trade. the trader buying during pullbacks may look to buy only if the price is near anticipated support, like a rising trendline, moving average, or fibonacci retracement level. they may also wait for selling on the pullback to slow and for the price to starting turning up before buying. traders that buy near prior highs, because they want to see that the price is moving higher again, may decide to only enter once the price moves above a short-term resistance level. this could be a consolidation or chart pattern high. alternatively, they may wait for the price move to new highs on a big volume jump, or for a technical indicator to flash a buy signal. risk is controlled with a stop loss. this is typically placed below a recent swing low, since the trader is expecting the price to move higher. ways to exit a profitable trade are plentiful. these could include when the price makes a lower swing low, a technical indicator turns bearish, a trendline or moving average is broken, or a trailing stop loss is hit. the following facebook inc. (fb) chart shows numerous examples of potential trades using support or penetration of resistance on increasing volume. a moving average has been added to aid in finding possible support areas. several longs have been highlighted with arrows that show a break of resistance on increased volume. the price consolidated while in an overall uptrend and then broke higher. waiting for the volume increase was important; otherwise, it is possible that trades would have been entered too early, or not at ideal times. 
let us first consider a period of bullish fervour, when an investor loses the opportunity to buy stock a at rs 100 and the price shoots up to rs 130 (i.e. the first top). when the correction starts in that counter, the same investor is afraid that the price may not come down to rs 100 again; so he starts buying it at a price above rs 100. due to the increased buying pressure before the previous bottom (i.e. rs 100), the stock may bottom out at a higher level, say at rs 110. once the stock bottoms out at rs 110, the number of investors who want to buy it during correction increases. since they know that the stock is already in an uptrend, they may try to buy it at a price above rs 110 the next time, and this may result in the formation of another higher bottom. this formation of ‘higher tops and higher bottoms’ is an uptrend. 
any market in which prices are in an upward trend. a market for a security, commodity, currency, or anything else where prices are consistently increasing. for example, if an index increases 10-20% over a relatively brief period of time, it is said to be in a bull market. there is a great deal of money that can be made in a bull market, but the danger exists that a bull market can undergo a price correction or become a speculative bubble. an extended period of generally rising prices in an individual item, such as stock or gold; a group of items, such as commodities or oil stocks; or the market as a whole. because security prices are often subject to reversals, it is sometimes difficult to know whether there has been a temporary interruption in or a permanent end to a bull market. thus, the opinion of whether a bull market is actually in progress is often subject to individual interpretation. a prolonged period when stock prices as a whole are moving upward is called a bull market, although the rate at which those gains occur can vary widely from bull market to bull market. the duration of a bull market, the severity of the falling market that follows, and the time that elapses until the next upturn are also different each time. well-known bull markets began in 1923, 1949, 1982, and 1990. a situation in which the prices of financial securities (stocks, shares, etc.) or commodities (tin, wheat, etc.) tend to rise as a result of persistent buying and only limited selling. a situation where the prices of financial securities (stocks, shares, etc.) or commodities (tin, wheat, etc.) are tending to rise as a result of persistent buying and only limited selling. 
an investor who thinks the market will rise. an investor who believes that the market or a security will rise and makes investment decisions accordingly. an investor who believes the price of a particular security or security prices in general will follow a broad upward trend. an investor can often be a bull on a specific security but not on the general market, and vice versa. a person who buys a financial security (stock, share, foreign currency, etc.) in expectation that its market price is likely to rise. a person who expects future prices in a stock exchange or commodity market to rise and who seeks to make money by buying shares or commodities.
a situation in which a security price is moving mostly upward. though there may be, and usually are, a few downward price movements in-between, this does not stop the overall bullish trend. for example, a security may be priced at $100 per share on january 1, $105 on january 10, and $109 on january 31. this indicates an uptrend, even if the security closed lower on certain days in january. a series of price increases in a security or in the general market. some investors believe a security tends to take on a certain inertia; as a result, these investors search for stock in an uptrend, thinking that it will probably continue to move in the same direction. 
The NYMEX oil chart has three technical features. They signal a continuation of the uptrend with a target near $87. However, movement toward this target is hindered by several resistance features which tend to slow the trend momentum. The first technical observation is the behavior of the Guppy Multiple Moving Average indicator. The long-term group of averages is consistently well separated, indicating strong investor support for the uptrend. When price drops, investors come into the market as buyers, supporting the trend. There is no current evidence of compression in the long-term GMMA. Compression shows that some investors are joining in the selling activity and signals the development of a bearish outlook. Price consistently rebounds from the upper edge of the long-term GMMA and this shows continued support for the uptrend. The second technical observation is the role of the uptrend line. From June 2017 until August 2018, the uptrend line acted as a support level. This confirmed trend strength. But in August 2018, the price fell below the trend line and this is indicative of some trend weakness. Now the uptrend line acts as a resistance feature. Price trends to move towards the value of the trend line and then retreat away from it. And this shows some trend weakness — but it is not, by itself, an indication of an end of the uptrend. The third technical feature is the consistent behavior of oil price as it moves in trading bands. Oil has a well-established pattern of moving in trading bands around $11 wide. Applying trade band projection methods gave a target near $76. This has been achieved and the pullback from that price level is an expected part of the trading band pattern. A breakout above the $76 level gives an upside target near $87. A strong bullish trend continuation is shown when price is able to move above resistance near $76 and above the value of the trend line. This would signal that the trend line is again acting as a support feature. All the support features and the trend strength continue to suggest that oil price is experiencing a temporary retreat. The longer term trading band target is near $87, so traders will buy in anticipation of trend continuation. The ANTSYSS trade method is used to extract good returns from this trend behavior.
Attempting a big acquisition can be a risky bet during stable times. It’s even more challenging during a pandemic. Yet Aveva Group (ticker: AV:U.K.) did exactly that in August, when it bought OSlsoft, the U.S. industrial software maker that is 45% owned by Japanese tech investor SoftBank, for $5 billion including debt. The combined group, which will have annual revenue of 1.2 billion pounds sterling ($1.5 billion), with adjusted earnings before interest and taxes estimated to be about £330 million, will transform U.K.-listed Aveva into a global industrial software player. That gives the stock room to grow. One of the U.K.’s oldest technology companies, Aveva began life at the University of Cambridge as a government-funded research institute, producing software used to design and manage oil rigs, ships, and chemical plants. It listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1996, and five years later changed its name to Aveva. The company has expanded through a series of deals, including a £3 billion merger with the industrial-software business of France’s Schneider Electric in 2018, and now commands a market valuation of almost £8 billion. “We think an uplift in market cap should make the equity more attractive to non-U.K. investors,” analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said. Demand for Aveva’s software—which is used, for example, by New Belgium Brewing to increase packaging production capacity and decrease downtime of the plant—has been robust despite coronavirus-related disruption. Aveva reported an 8.8% rise in revenue to £833.8 million in the 12 months to the end of March 2020, and analysts expect the company to reach revenue of £929 million in the year ending March 2023, according to the FactSet consensus. Buying OSIsoft gives Aveva access to the San Leandro, Calif.–based company’s PI Software platform to help customers manage their data and data-analytics software to boost the performance of big industrial plants and processes. “As we considered the acquisition of OSIsoft, we were mindful of the superb fit of our combined businesses and effects the transaction would have in strengthening our leading role in accelerating the digitalization of the industrial world,” says Craig Hayman , chief executive officer of Aveva. Shareholders seem to like the strategic rationale of the deal. Aveva’s stock has risen 17% since it was announced on Aug. 25, even though a rights issue will provide the bulk of the acquisition financing. Shares are up about 4% to 4,842 pence ($62.50). The shares trade at a forward consensus  price/earning ratio of 43.9 times, according to FactSet, which is high compared to where it has tended to trade in recent years. “However, Aveva’s peer group is similarly richly valued,” analysts at UBS say. These include Autodesk (ADSK) and ESI Group (ESI.France). UBS sees potential for increased cross-selling to customers of both companies, including Johnson & Johnson, ExxonMobil, Microsoft, and Duke Energy. Meanwhile, the OSIsoft acquisition will reduce Aveva’s exposure to oil and gas—its second-largest market—from 40% to 35%, according to UBS. Aveva is planning to finance the bulk of the deal with a $3.5 billion rights issue set to be launched in the next few weeks, as well as $900 million from existing cash and some new debt. It will also issue $600 million of new shares to OSIsoft’s largest shareholder, a holding company owned by the company’s founder, J. Patrick Kennedy. Shareholders can take comfort in the fact that Schneider Electric, which owns 60% of Aveva’s stock, has committed to take up its portion of the cash call. “We are very comfortable with the level of debt to support the acquisition of OSIsoft, which amounts to $900 million and under two-times pro forma Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization). The servicing and paying down of that debt will be based on the strong recurring revenue streams, margin, and cash-generation profiles of the combined businesses,” Hayman says. Aveva hasn’t given a target for cost savings yet, but expects them to be “material,” and the group’s track record on M&A bodes well. Its integration of Schneider Electric went smoothly, even though Aveva had to extract the business out of the French parent company, which was more complicated than buying a whole company, as with OSIsoft. At the time of the deal, it had forecast synergies of £25 million over two and half years and eventually achieved synergies of £33 million. “While significant upside probably hinges on delivering revenue synergies, management has done this once before and the industry backdrop—powered by Industry 4.0 and IIoT [Industrial Internet of Things]—is arguably more supportive than ever,” analysts at Bank of America Merrill Lynch noted.  Aveva looks set to repeat the trick with OSIsoft, with investors reaping the rewards. 
European stocks inched up on Wednesday, with retail stocks rising after Inditex SA results, as investors waited for the outcome of the Federal Reserve meeting later. U.S. stock futures also rose.  The Stoxx Europe 600 index SXXP, 0.44% was up 0.3% to 372.22, on the heels of a 0.7% gain on Tuesday. The German DAX DAX, 0.28% and the French CAC 40 PX1, 0.27% rose 0.2% each, while the FTSE 100 UKX, 0.06% was flat. The euro EURUSD, 0.21% and British pound GBPUSD, 0.18% each traded flat against the dollar.  U.S. stock futures ES00, 0.43% NQ00, 0.55% YM00, 0.36% were up around 0.3% across the board.  Investors are waiting for the outcome of the last Federal Open Market Committee meeting before the U.S. presidential election. That will come after the close of European markets.  Economists expect the Fed to signal interest rates will remain unchanged and close to zero through the end of 2023. The Fed will release 2023 economic forecasts for the first time.  Also grabbing attention, Snowflake SNOW, -0.67%, the biggest-ever software initial public offering will begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange later on Wednesday. Backed by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway, the cloud-data specialist is expected to raise nearly $4 billion. The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy will meet Thursday. Data released Wednesday showed annual inflation slowing sharply in August, with consumer prices up 0.2% versus a 1% rise in July. Data released Tuesday showed 700,000 jobs have been lost in the U.K. since pandemic-induced lockdowns in March. The retail sector was leading gains, led by a 5% rise in shares of Inditex ITX, 7.54% after the Spanish owner of Zara and Bershka returned to a profit in the second quarter from a loss in the previous quarter from COVID-19 -related store closures. Online sales rose 74% in the first half of the year, though the retailer swung to a net loss in that period. But the company said 98% of stores were now open.  Shares of rival H&M AB HM.B, 2.72%, which beat expectations on earnings on Tuesday, climbed over 4% and those of sportswear maker PUMA SE PUM, 2.17% rose 2.5%. 
Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson, better known to most as just Ericsson (ERIC, $10.87), generates revenue from two sources. First, it provides hardware, software and services to telecom companies around the world. These products are the connectivity solutions that telecoms require to deliver 5G service to their customers. As the world continues to digitalize, Ericsson will benefit from this transformation. Secondly, Ericsson also generates a royalty of up to $5 per smartphone from its 5G patent portfolio. In the second quarter ended June 30, the company reported a small 1% year-over-year increase in revenue. Given the global pandemic, these results were better than expected. On the bottom line, Ericsson boosted gross margins (38.2%) and operating margins (8.2%) during the quarter, resulting in a doubling of free cash flow. Ericsson currently is providing 5G equipment to 56 live 5G networks in 29 countries, including China. The company's commercial deals for 5G equipment hit 100 in August, with almost 60 of them already announced to the public. Then on Sept. 10, Ericsson announced that its 5G roll-out with Spain's Telefonica (TEF) had begun. It expects to have thousands of Ericsson sites activated by the end of 2020. Those sites will provide Telefonica with 75% coverage across Spain, including both Barcelona and Madrid. While COVID-19 will slow the rate at which Ericsson can install the equipment for some of the 5G launches, its sales development team can continue to broaden its customer base. That makes ERIC an attractive buy among 5G stocks.  Whenever you mention Ericsson, its Swedish rival Nokia (NOK, $4.09) isn't too far behind. Nokia, Ericsson and Samsung collectively control more than 50% of the network equipment market, with that market share expected to grow to beyond 65% by the end of calendar 2025. But while Nokia looks like one of the best 5G stocks based on positioning, investors will have to monitor recent changes in leadership. On Aug. 1, Nokia installed a new chief executive officer, Pekka Lundmark. Chief Financial Officer Marco Wiren joined the company one month later. UBS analysts David Mulholland and Francois-Xavier Bouvignies believe Lundmark and Wiren will continue to carry out the company's three-pronged strategy for growth. This includes developing an end-to-end 5G solution (RAN, IP, and Optics) for its 5G customers, designing a strong software offering, and creating a strong enterprise channel. In the past two years, Nokia has done an excellent job developing software and enterprise businesses. The analysts' most significant concern is whether Nokia will be able to execute its plan. "Our base case on the stock at this point remains that a lot of underlying challenges the business was facing in 2019 have already started to improve with better execution through (the first half of 2020), and we would certainly look for this to continue through H2," UBS's analysts wrote in a Sept. 9 note to clients. "While the new management team will have the option of pursuing significant changes – we do note that the transition in the case of Nokia has at least appeared more as a succession than a determined restructuring (vs. Ericsson)." On Sept. 7, Nokia learned that it lost out to Samsung for a contract to supply some 5G equipment to Verizon (VZ). Although the Verizon contract was a big one at $6.64 billion, UBS believes Nokia has enough on its plate to be successful over at least the next few quarters if not longer. Qualcomm (QCOM, $113.46) makes money from selling its Snapdragon family of chips for use in smartphones and other mobile technology. It also has a patent business that collects licensing fees from other companies to use its patents. Qualcomm's licensing business has improved dramatically in less than two years, first settling with Apple in April 2019. The iPhone maker paid Qualcomm $4.5 billion and signed a six-year global patent licensing agreement with an option for an additional two years. Qualcomm will supply 5G chips for Apple's new 5G iPhones. On July 29, Huawei settled with Qualcomm on a dispute over past unpaid royalties. In addition to making a $1.8 billion lump-sum payment. Huawei also signed a multi-year licensing partnership with Qualcomm. When it comes to the processors needed to run 5G phones, Qualcomm is the leading game in town, and that's going to be good for future sales. "With smartphone volumes steadily recovering, Qualcomm is well-positioned to benefit from the long-term 5G investment cycle and we anticipate strong earnings in fiscal 2021 and beyond as 5G smartphones ramp, the mix of 5G grows, Apple re-enters the model for (Qualcomm CDMA Technologies) shipments, Huawei returns to the model for licensing payments, and global demand for smartphones improves," Canaccord Genuity analyst T. Michael Walkley writes in an Aug. 31 note to clients. In fiscal 2021, Canaccord expects Qualcomm to earn $7.22 per share, a sizable rebound from fiscal 2020's $3.92. In 2022, it's expected to keep growing, to $7.81 per share. "Communications infrastructure (25% of revenue) was hugely positive in the quarter, posting 15% year-over-year growth in 3Q20 after being down 23% annually in 2Q20," writes Argus Research's Jim Kelleher, who recently affirmed his Buy rating and $145 price target after ADI's fiscal third-quarter earnings. "Infrastructure was also up a sharp 32% sequentially; the volatility in revenue reflects the lumpy nature of 5G investments. "ADI continues to see 5G as a multiyear tailwind; in 3Q20, wireless strength was aided by demand strength in wireline, as carrier and data center operators worked to keep up with surging traffic across core and edge networks." In mid-July, Analog Devices announced a $21 billion, all-stock acquisition of Maxim Integrated Products (MXIM). The combined business will have annual revenues of $8.2 billion, more than $2.7 billion in free cash flow and an enterprise value of $68 billion. Analog Devices has a history of successfully integrating acquisitions and adding tangible value for its shareholders, so view this as a plus. 
But at the same time, it's been a great year for long-term investors to buy into great companies on the cheap. With volatility picking back up over the past week and change, opportunity has come knocking yet again for long-term investors looking to buy into the market's most unstoppable stocks. Best of all, long-term investors don't need to be rich to eventually become wealthy. If you have $2,500 that you can spare, which won't be needed to pay bills or cover emergencies, you have more than enough to buy the following four unstoppable stocks. Alphabet's cloud infrastructure segment, Google Cloud, is also a stealthy fast-growing segment. It's no secret that cloud subscription margins are much higher than ad-based margins. With Google Cloud raking in over $3 billion in the second quarter and accounting for nearly 8% of Alphabet's total sales, it's going to be responsible for a significant uptick in the company's operating cash flow in the years that lie ahead. And yet, despite the worst quarter for the U.S. economy in decades, Facebook still logged an 11% year-on-year sales increase during the June-ended quarter. That should tell you something about how important Facebook and its family of social media assets are to the advertising world.If you're not closely watching Teladoc Health (NYSE:TDOC), you're missing the blossoming of an industry giant and a company on the cutting edge of precision medicine. As the name implies, Teladoc is a leading telemedicine company in the healthcare sector. It was already seeing a boon in businesses well before the pandemic struck. However, keeping sick and immunocompromised people out of hospitals and doctor's offices has made virtual visits that much more important. After generating $20 million in full-year sales in 2013, Teladoc might hit $1 billion this year, and top $2 billion by 2023. Additionally, you should understand that telemedicine visits are a benefit to all parties. It puts less time constraint on physicians, provides convenience for the patient, and happens to be cheaper than in-office visits for health insurance companies. We're really just scratching the tip of the iceberg after Teladoc registered 2.8 million visits during the June-ended quarter. 
