uptrend, also known as rising trend, is the trader's favorite trend type. in this trend, stock price trends in upward directions by making series of higher high and higher lows. though, it is safe to make a buy decision anywhere in uptrend, it gives best returns when bought near pullback or intermittent lows. as we have learnt in 'tool to identify trends' uptrend can be determined by joining any two low points of the chart and drawing a trend-line. this trend-line is extrapolated and it act as support. trend is considered as long as the trend-line is not breached. each subsequent lower point in trend line should be higher than previous one. the steeper the trend line the stronger the trend. other way to identify trend is by its moving average. a rising moving average indicates that stock is in trend. if the shorter moving average is on the rise, then short term trend is in place. if a longer moving average is rising then stock is in long term uptrend. as we have seen in complex trend example where there could be many counter trend in a long term trend, agile trader spot them and play in both direction to make profit. strategies with uptrend this is in addition to the strategies explained in previous section. each time the price comes toward trend line, smart traders accumulate some more and take partial profit when it goes toward upper end of the extrapolated previous highs. for every new position, corresponding stop loss need to be placed in. trading multiple times in uptrend, it is best to not consider average out. since, accumulation happens in chunks, they may consider separate trade for initial term and a strict stop loss should be placed. trailing stop loss would yield maximum result. while there is no fixed rule for putting trailing stop loss, depending on price movement of the stock and typical trade interval, previous, one or two days low could act as a good stop loss. exit as soon as trend line is breached particularly when with higher volume.
an uptrend describes the price movement of a financial asset when the overall direction is upward. in an uptrend, each successive peak and trough is higher than the ones found earlier in the trend. the uptrend is therefore composed of higher swing lows and higher swing highs. as long as the price is making these higher swing lows and higher swing highs, the uptrend is considered intact. once the price starts making lower swing highs or lower swing lows, the uptrend is in question or has reversed into a downtrend. roku commonly sees discussions about trends, for instance. an uptrend is an overall move higher in price, created by higher swing lows and higher swing highs. technical indicators and tools may aid in identifying and analyzing uptrends. trend traders utilize uptrends by buying during pullbacks or as the price rises again, attempting to capture profits based on the concept that uptrends make higher lows and higher highs. when the price is no longer making higher lows and higher highs, the uptrend is in question or may have reversed into a downtrend. some traders and investors only choose to trade during uptrends. these trend traders utilize various strategies to take advantage of the tendency for the price to make higher highs and higher lows. an uptrend provides investors with an opportunity to profit from rising asset prices. selling an asset once it has failed to create a higher peak and trough is one of the most effective ways to avoid large losses that can result from a change in trend. some technical traders utilize trendlines to identify an uptrend and spot possible trend reversals. the trendline is drawn along the rising swing lows, which helps show where future swing lows may form. moving averages are also utilized by some technical traders to analyze uptrends. when the price is above the moving average the trend is considered up, but when the price drops below moving average it means the price is now trading below the average price over a given period and may therefore no longer be in an uptrend. while these tools may be helpful in visually seeing the uptrend, ultimately the price should be making higher swing highs and higher swing lows to confirm that an uptrend is present. when an asset fails to produce higher swing highs and lows, it means that a downtrend could be underway, the asset is ranging, or the price action is choppy and the trend direction is hard to determine. in such cases, uptrend traders may opt to step aside until an uptrend is clearly visible. there are many techniques for analyzing and trading an uptrend. looking only at price action is one way, while using tools like trendlines and technical indicators are another. two common price action trading strategies—which can be confirmed or invalidated with additional input from technical tools and indicators—are to buy when the price pulls back during an uptrend, or to buy when the price is attempting to make a new swing high. even as the price rises, it will oscillate up and down. the moves lower are called pullbacks. if a trader or investor believes the price will continue higher after the pullback, they can buy during the pullback and profit from the ensuing price rise... if it comes. some trend traders view buying during a pullback as too risky or time-consuming, since there is uncertainty as to whether the price will rise again, and when. these traders may prefer to wait for the price to be definitively rising again. this means they may end buying near the prior swing high, or when the asset pushes into new high territory. both strategies require specific entry criteria to enter a trade. the trader buying during pullbacks may look to buy only if the price is near anticipated support, like a rising trendline, moving average, or fibonacci retracement level. they may also wait for selling on the pullback to slow and for the price to starting turning up before buying. traders that buy near prior highs, because they want to see that the price is moving higher again, may decide to only enter once the price moves above a short-term resistance level. this could be a consolidation or chart pattern high. alternatively, they may wait for the price move to new highs on a big volume jump, or for a technical indicator to flash a buy signal. risk is controlled with a stop loss. this is typically placed below a recent swing low, since the trader is expecting the price to move higher. ways to exit a profitable trade are plentiful. these could include when the price makes a lower swing low, a technical indicator turns bearish, a trendline or moving average is broken, or a trailing stop loss is hit. the following facebook inc. (fb) chart shows numerous examples of potential trades using support or penetration of resistance on increasing volume. a moving average has been added to aid in finding possible support areas. several longs have been highlighted with arrows that show a break of resistance on increased volume. the price consolidated while in an overall uptrend and then broke higher. waiting for the volume increase was important; otherwise, it is possible that trades would have been entered too early, or not at ideal times. 
let us first consider a period of bullish fervour, when an investor loses the opportunity to buy stock a at rs 100 and the price shoots up to rs 130 (i.e. the first top). when the correction starts in that counter, the same investor is afraid that the price may not come down to rs 100 again; so he starts buying it at a price above rs 100. due to the increased buying pressure before the previous bottom (i.e. rs 100), the stock may bottom out at a higher level, say at rs 110. once the stock bottoms out at rs 110, the number of investors who want to buy it during correction increases. since they know that the stock is already in an uptrend, they may try to buy it at a price above rs 110 the next time, and this may result in the formation of another higher bottom. this formation of ‘higher tops and higher bottoms’ is an uptrend. 
any market in which prices are in an upward trend. a market for a security, commodity, currency, or anything else where prices are consistently increasing. for example, if an index increases 10-20% over a relatively brief period of time, it is said to be in a bull market. there is a great deal of money that can be made in a bull market, but the danger exists that a bull market can undergo a price correction or become a speculative bubble. an extended period of generally rising prices in an individual item, such as stock or gold; a group of items, such as commodities or oil stocks; or the market as a whole. because security prices are often subject to reversals, it is sometimes difficult to know whether there has been a temporary interruption in or a permanent end to a bull market. thus, the opinion of whether a bull market is actually in progress is often subject to individual interpretation. a prolonged period when stock prices as a whole are moving upward is called a bull market, although the rate at which those gains occur can vary widely from bull market to bull market. the duration of a bull market, the severity of the falling market that follows, and the time that elapses until the next upturn are also different each time. well-known bull markets began in 1923, 1949, 1982, and 1990. a situation in which the prices of financial securities (stocks, shares, etc.) or commodities (tin, wheat, etc.) tend to rise as a result of persistent buying and only limited selling. a situation where the prices of financial securities (stocks, shares, etc.) or commodities (tin, wheat, etc.) are tending to rise as a result of persistent buying and only limited selling. 
an investor who thinks the market will rise. an investor who believes that the market or a security will rise and makes investment decisions accordingly. an investor who believes the price of a particular security or security prices in general will follow a broad upward trend. an investor can often be a bull on a specific security but not on the general market, and vice versa. a person who buys a financial security (stock, share, foreign currency, etc.) in expectation that its market price is likely to rise. a person who expects future prices in a stock exchange or commodity market to rise and who seeks to make money by buying shares or commodities.
a situation in which a security price is moving mostly upward. though there may be, and usually are, a few downward price movements in-between, this does not stop the overall bullish trend. for example, a security may be priced at $100 per share on january 1, $105 on january 10, and $109 on january 31. this indicates an uptrend, even if the security closed lower on certain days in january. a series of price increases in a security or in the general market. some investors believe a security tends to take on a certain inertia; as a result, these investors search for stock in an uptrend, thinking that it will probably continue to move in the same direction. 
